ReadMe.md, before:

Project Overview
================================================================================

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/william-dawson/NTPoly.svg?branch=travis-ci)](https://travis-ci.org/william-dawson/NTPoly)

NTPoly is a massively parallel library for computing the functions of sparse,
symmetric matrices based on polynomial expansions. For sufficiently sparse
matrices, most of the matrix functions in NTPoly can be computed in linear
time.

Set Up Guide
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
NTPoly is freely available and open source under the MIT license. It can be
downloaded from the [Github](https://github.com/william-dawson/NTPoly)
repository. We of course recommend that you download a
[release version](https://github.com/william-dawson/NTPoly/releases)
to get started.

NTPoly uses CMake as a build system. First, take a look in the Targets
directory. You'll find a list of .cmake files which have example configurations
on popular systems. You should copy one of these files, and create your own
mymachine.cmake file. Then, cd into the Build directory, and type:
> cmake -DCMAKE_TOOLCHAIN_FILE=../Targets/mymachine.cmake ..

After that you can build using:
> make

And for the documentation:
> make doc

[Online documentation](https://william-dawson.github.io/NTPoly/) is also
available. Further details about the library can be found on the
[Wiki](https://github.com/william-dawson/NTPoly/wiki).
If you aren't cross compiling, you can perform local tests using:
> make test

Basic Theory
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The theory of matrix functions is a long studied branch of matrix algebra.
Matrix functions have a wide range of applications, including graph problems,
differential equations, and materials science. Common examples of matrix
functions include the matrix exponential:

> f(A) = e^A.

from the study of networks, or the inverse square root:

> f(A) = A^(-1/2)

from quantum chemistry. NTPoly is a massively parallel library that can be used
to compute a variety of matrix using polynomial expansions. Consider for example
the Taylor series expansion of a function *f(x)* .

> f(x) = f(0) + f'(0)x + f''(0)x^2/2! + ...

We can imagine expanding this from the function of a single variable, to a
function of a matrix:

> f(A) = f(0) + f'(0)A + f''(0)A^2/2! + ...

where matrices can be summed using matrix addition, and raised to a power
using matrix multiplication. At the heart of NTPoly are polynomial expansions
like this. We implement not only Taylor expansions, but also Chebyshev
polynomial expansions, and other specialized expansions based on the function
of interest.

When the input matrix *A* and the output matrix *f(A)* are sparse, we can
replace the dense matrix addition and multiplication routines with sparse
matrix routines. This allows us to use NTPoly to efficiently compute many
functions of sparse matrices.

Getting Start With Examples
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
In the examples directory, there are a number of different example programs that
use NTPoly. You can check the ReadMe.md file in each example directory to
learn how to build and run each example. The simplest example is PremadeMatrix,
which includes sample output you can compare to.

Feature Outline
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The following features and methods have been implemented in NTPoly:

* General Polynomials
    * Standard Polynomials
    * Chebyshev Polynomials
    * Hermite Polynomials
* Transcendental Functions
    * Trigonometric Functions
    * Exponential and Logarithm
* Matrix Roots
    * Square Root and Inverse Square Root
    * Matrix *p* th Root
* Quantum Chemistry
    * Density Matrix Minimization
    * Density Matrix Purification
    * Chemical Potential Calculation
    * Geometry Optimization
* Other
    * Matrix Inverse/Moore-Penrose Pseudo Inverse
    * Sign Function/Polar Decomposition
    * Load Balancing Matrices
    * File I/O

Citation
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
A description of the techniques used in NTPoly can be found in the following
Computer Phyics Communications paper:

> Dawson, William, and Takahito Nakajima. "Massively parallel sparse matrix
> function calculations with NTPoly." Computer Physics Communications (2017).

Please cite this paper in accordance to the practices in your field.

How To Contribute
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
To begin contributing to NTPoly, take a look at the
[Wiki](https://github.com/william-dawson/NTPoly/wiki) pages. The
[Contributing Guide](https://github.com/william-dawson/NTPoly/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md)
provides an overview of best development practices. Additionally, there is a
[Adding New Functionality](https://github.com/william-dawson/NTPoly/wiki/Adding-New-Functionality-(Example))
page which documents how one would go about adding a matrix function to NTPoly.

Commit message:

Added flag for release and debug mode.

ReadMe.md, after:

Project Overview
================================================================================

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/william-dawson/NTPoly.svg?branch=travis-ci)](https://travis-ci.org/william-dawson/NTPoly)

NTPoly is a massively parallel library for computing the functions of sparse,
symmetric matrices based on polynomial expansions. For sufficiently sparse
matrices, most of the matrix functions in NTPoly can be computed in linear
time.

Set Up Guide
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
NTPoly is freely available and open source under the MIT license. It can be
downloaded from the [Github](https://github.com/william-dawson/NTPoly)
repository. We of course recommend that you download a
[release version](https://github.com/william-dawson/NTPoly/releases)
to get started.

NTPoly uses CMake as a build system. First, take a look in the Targets
directory. You'll find a list of .cmake files which have example configurations
on popular systems. You should copy one of these files, and create your own
mymachine.cmake file. Then, cd into the Build directory, and type:
> cmake -DCMAKE_TOOLCHAIN_FILE=../Targets/mymachine.cmake \
-DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release ..

By default, NTPoly is built for release mode. You can also specify debug mode:
> cmake -DCMAKE_TOOLCHAIN_FILE=../Targets/mymachine.cmake \
-DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Debug ..

After that you can build using:
> make

And for the documentation:
> make doc

[Online documentation](https://william-dawson.github.io/NTPoly/) is also
available. Further details about the library can be found on the
[Wiki](https://github.com/william-dawson/NTPoly/wiki).
If you aren't cross compiling, you can perform local tests using:
> make test

Basic Theory
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The theory of matrix functions is a long studied branch of matrix algebra.
Matrix functions have a wide range of applications, including graph problems,
differential equations, and materials science. Common examples of matrix
functions include the matrix exponential:

> f(A) = e^A.

from the study of networks, or the inverse square root:

> f(A) = A^(-1/2)

from quantum chemistry. NTPoly is a massively parallel library that can be used
to compute a variety of matrix using polynomial expansions. Consider for example
the Taylor series expansion of a function *f(x)* .

> f(x) = f(0) + f'(0)x + f''(0)x^2/2! + ...

We can imagine expanding this from the function of a single variable, to a
function of a matrix:

> f(A) = f(0) + f'(0)A + f''(0)A^2/2! + ...

where matrices can be summed using matrix addition, and raised to a power
using matrix multiplication. At the heart of NTPoly are polynomial expansions
like this. We implement not only Taylor expansions, but also Chebyshev
polynomial expansions, and other specialized expansions based on the function
of interest.

When the input matrix *A* and the output matrix *f(A)* are sparse, we can
replace the dense matrix addition and multiplication routines with sparse
matrix routines. This allows us to use NTPoly to efficiently compute many
functions of sparse matrices.

Getting Start With Examples
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
In the examples directory, there are a number of different example programs that
use NTPoly. You can check the ReadMe.md file in each example directory to
learn how to build and run each example. The simplest example is PremadeMatrix,
which includes sample output you can compare to.

Feature Outline
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The following features and methods have been implemented in NTPoly:

* General Polynomials
    * Standard Polynomials
    * Chebyshev Polynomials
    * Hermite Polynomials
* Transcendental Functions
    * Trigonometric Functions
    * Exponential and Logarithm
* Matrix Roots
    * Square Root and Inverse Square Root
    * Matrix *p* th Root
* Quantum Chemistry
    * Density Matrix Minimization
    * Density Matrix Purification
    * Chemical Potential Calculation
    * Geometry Optimization
* Other
    * Matrix Inverse/Moore-Penrose Pseudo Inverse
    * Sign Function/Polar Decomposition
    * Load Balancing Matrices
    * File I/O

Citation
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
A description of the techniques used in NTPoly can be found in the following
Computer Phyics Communications paper:

> Dawson, William, and Takahito Nakajima. "Massively parallel sparse matrix
> function calculations with NTPoly." Computer Physics Communications (2017).

Please cite this paper in accordance to the practices in your field.

How To Contribute
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
To begin contributing to NTPoly, take a look at the
[Wiki](https://github.com/william-dawson/NTPoly/wiki) pages. The
[Contributing Guide](https://github.com/william-dawson/NTPoly/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md)
provides an overview of best development practices. Additionally, there is a
[Adding New Functionality](https://github.com/william-dawson/NTPoly/wiki/Adding-New-Functionality-(Example))
page which documents how one would go about adding a matrix function to NTPoly.
