---
layout: post
title:  "NTPoly Application: Density-Functional Pertubation Theory"
date:   2020-12-09 11:00:00 +0900
categories: blog update
---

Recently, a very interesting 
[paper](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0010465520302940?dgcid=rss_sd_all) 
by Honghui Shang of the Chinese Academy
of Sciences has appeared in Computer Physics Communications. This paper
presents an efficient method for computing the response density matrix
for density-functional pertubation theory. In order to demonstrate their
method, they utilized the NTPoly library. 

> Shang, Honghui, WanZhen Liang, Yunquan Zhang, and Jinlong Yang. "Efficient parallel linear scaling method to get the response density matrix in all-electron real-space density-functional perturbation theory." Computer Physics Communications 258 (2020): 107613.

Density-Functional Perturbation Theory is a method to compute response
properties of systems such as polarizability, vibrational frequencies, etc.
The authors describe how Density Matrix Purification can be used as a
replacement for the typical approach which requires the eigenvectors and
eigenvalues of the Hamiltonian. They utilized the sparse-matrix sparse-matrix
routine implemented in NTPoly via the 
[ELSI](https://wordpress.elsi-interchange.org/) interface to implement
this approach. The authors examined closely what parameters are needed to get 
good accuracy without sacrificing too much performance. To test the performance 
of their method, the authors deployed the code on the Tianhe-2 supercomputer
and performed tests with up to 25,200 cores. Despite the fact that NTPoly has 
never been tuned for such a machine, the code showed excellent scalability.